https://github.com/keel-hq/keel


Keel - automated Kubernetes deployments for the rest of us

Website https://keel.sh
Slack - kubernetes.slack.com look for channel #keel
Keel is a tool for automating Kubernetes deployment updates. Keel is stateless, robust and lightweight.

Keel provides several key features:

Kubernetes and Helm providers - Keel has direct integrations with Kubernetes and Helm.

No CLI/API - tired of f***ctl for everything? Keel doesn't have one. Gets job done through labels, annotations, charts.

Semver policies - specify update policy for each deployment/Helm release individually.

Automatic Google Container Registry configuration - Keel automatically sets up topic and subscriptions for your deployment images by periodically scanning your environment.

Native, DockerHub, Quay and Azure container registry webhooks support - once webhook is received impacted deployments will be identified and updated.

Polling - when webhooks and pubsub aren't available - Keel can still be useful by checking Docker Registry for new tags (if current tag is semver) or same tag SHA digest change (ie: latest).

Notifications - out of the box Keel has Slack, Hipchat, Mattermost and standard webhook notifications, more info here



Support

Support Keel's development by:

Patreon
Paypal
Star this repository
Follow on Twitter
Quick Start



A step-by-step guide to install Keel on your Kubernetes cluster is viewable on the Keel website:

https://keel.sh/v1/guide/quick-start.html

Configuration

Once Keel is deployed, you only need to specify update policy on your deployment file or Helm chart:



No additional configuration is required. Enabling continuous delivery for your workloads has never been this easy!

Documentation

Documentation is viewable on the Keel Website:

https://keel.sh/v1/guide/documentation

Contributing

Before starting to work on some big or medium features - raise an issue here so we can coordinate our efforts.

Developing Keel

If you wish to work on Keel itself, you will need Go 1.9+ installed. Make sure you put Keel into correct Gopath and go build (dependency management is done through dep).

To test Keel while developing:

Launch a Kubernetes cluster like Minikube or Docker for Mac with Kubernetes.
Change config to use it: kubectl config use-context docker-for-desktop
Build Keel from cmd/keel directory.
Start Keel with: keel --no-incluster. This will use Kubeconfig from your home.