

1. 查看需要修改的容器，记住container id
docker ps -a
2. 停止容器
docker stop xxx
3. 修改容器的端口映射配置文件

cd /var/lib/docker/containers

根据容器id查看对应目录，进去该目录（注：此文件夹内的id为很长的字符，只需要看前面docker ps -a显示出来的container_id前面的值对应即可）

编辑json文件：
vi config.v2.json

vi config.v2.json
 
"Config": {
....
"ExposedPorts": {
"80/tcp": {},
"8888/tcp": {}
},
....
},
"NetworkSettings": {
....
"Ports": {
 "80/tcp": [
 {
 "HostIp": "",
 "HostPort": "80"
 }
 ],
 vi hostconfig.json

vi hostconfig.json
 
"PortBindings": {
 "80/tcp": [
 {
 "HostIp": "",
 "HostPort": "80"
 }
 ],
 "8888/tcp": [
 {
 "HostIp": "",
 "HostPort": "8888"
 }
 ]
 }
4.重启docker服务
service docker restart
5.启动容器
docker start xxx


## 2. 方法二

I'm also interested in this problem.

As @Thasmo mentioned, port forwardings can be specified ONLY with docker run command.
Other commands, docker start does not have -p option and docker port only displays current forwardings.

To add port forwardings, I always follow these steps,

stop running container

docker stop test01
commit the container

docker commit test01 test02
NOTE: The above, test02 is a new image that I'm constructing from the test01 container.

re-run from the commited image

docker run -p 8080:8080 -td test02
Where the first 8080 is the local port and the second 8080 is the container port.

## 3. 方法三

You can change the port mapping by directly editing the hostconfig.json file at /var/lib/docker/containers/[hash_of_the_container]/hostconfig.json

You can determine the [hash_of_the_container] via the docker inspect <container_name> command and the value of the "Id" field is the hash.

1) stop the container 
2) change the file
3) restart your docker engine (to flush/clear config caches)
4) start the container
So you don't need to create an image with this approach. You can also change the restart flag here.

P.S. You may visit https://docs.docker.com/engine/admin/ to learn how to correctly restart your docker engine as per your host machine. I used sudo systemctl restart docker to restart my docker engine that is running on Ubuntu 16.04


## 参考

1. https://stackoverflow.com/questions/19335444/how-do-i-assign-a-port-mapping-to-an-existing-docker-container
2. [修改docker的port端口映射](https://blog.csdn.net/ijijni/article/details/81939523)