

https://github.com/d3/d3/wiki#d3_json


Getting Started

Observable is the quickest way to start playing with D3. Browse the visualization collection for inspiration, and then fork a notebook!

Installing

For NPM, npm install d3. For Yarn, yarn add d3. Otherwise, download the latest release. The released bundle supports AMD, CommonJS, and vanilla environments. Create a custom bundle using Rollup or your preferred bundler. You can also load directly from d3js.org:

<script src="https://d3js.org/d3.v5.js"></script>
For the minified version:

<script src="https://d3js.org/d3.v5.min.js"></script>
You can also use the standalone D3 microlibraries. For example, d3-selection:

<script src="https://d3js.org/d3-selection.v1.min.js"></script>
If you prefer to pin to a specific release, try CDNJS or unpkg.

Supported Environments

D3 5+ supports recent browsers, such as Chrome, Edge, Firefox and Safari. D3 4 and below also supports IE 9+. Parts of D3 may work in older browsers, as many D3 modules have minimal requirements. For example, d3-selection uses the Selectors API Level 1, but you can preload Sizzle for compatibility. You’ll need a modern browser to use SVG and CSS3 Transitions. D3 is not a compatibility layer, so if your browser doesn’t support standards, you’re out of luck. Sorry!

D3 also runs on Node and web workers. To use the DOM in Node, you must provide your own DOM implementation; JSDOM is recommended. To avoid defining a global document, pass a DOM element to d3.select or a NodeList to d3.selectAll, like so:

var d3 = require("d3"),
    jsdom = require("jsdom");

var document = jsdom.jsdom(),
    svg = d3.select(document.body).append("svg");
When using D3 in an environment that supports ES modules, you can import the default D3 bundle as a namespace:

import * as d3 from "d3";
If you want to import a D3 module that is not included in the default bundle, you must assign it a separate namespace:

import * as d3 from "d3";
import * as d3GeoProjection from "d3-geo-projection";
For this reason, the preferred pattern is to import symbols from the D3 modules directly, rather than using the default bundle:

import {select, selectAll} from "d3-selection";
import {geoPath} from "d3-geo";
import {geoPatterson} from "d3-geo-projection";
If you are using a bundler, make sure your bundler is configured to consume the modules entry point in the package.json. See webpack’s resolve.mainFields, for example.

Local Development

Browsers enforce strict security permissions to prevent you from reading files out of the local file system. To develop locally, you must run a local web server rather than using file://…. Node’s http-server is recommended. To install:

npm install -g http-server
To run:

http-server & 
This will start the server on http://localhost:8080 from the current working directory.