http://gitstats.sourceforge.net/

GitStats - git history statistics generator

About

GitStats is a statistics generator for git (a distributed revision control system) repositories. It examines the repository and produces some interesting statistics from the history of it. Currently HTML is the only output format.

Also see the SourceForge project page.

Features

Here is a list of some statistics generated currently:

General statistics: total files, lines, commits, authors.
Activity: commits by hour of day, day of week, hour of week, month of year, year and month, and year.
Authors: list of authors (name, commits (%), first commit date, last commit date, age), author of month, author of year.
Files: file count by date, extensions
Lines: Lines of Code by date
Examples

See the examples directory for example statistics generated for various projects.

Requirements

Git
Python
Gnuplot
Getting GitStats

GitStats repository is hosted on both GitHub and Gitorious.

## Using git
The recommended way to get GitStats is to clone it with git:
git clone git://github.com/hoxu/gitstats.git

### Debian
If you are running Debian Squeeze, Wheezy or Sid, you can install gitstats with:
apt-get install gitstats
But note that the version in Debian is most likely much older than the latest version available in git.
### Fedora
On Fedora 17 or later and EL6 distributions that have the EPEL repository [1] enabled:
yum install gitstats
### OS X
Homebrew contains a head-only recipe for gitstats:

brew install --HEAD homebrew/head-only/gitstats
License

Both the code and the web site are licensed under GPLv2/GPLv3.

Related projects

git
Projects that generate statistics for other version control systems: StatCVS, StatSVN. Note that you can use GitStats for other version control systems by importing them to git first.
Gource, software version control visualization.
code_swarm, organic software visualisation of project repositories.