# 1. Git代码行统计命令集_hshl1214的博客-CSDN博客_git代码统计命令 
1. https://blog.csdn.net/hshl1214/article/details/52451084
2. Git - 查看提交历史 https://git-scm.com/book/zh/v2/Git-基础-查看提交历史
3. http://blog.csdn.net/dwarven/article/details/46550117
4. file:///C:/Git/mingw64/share/doc/git-doc/user-manual.html#what-is-a-branch

统计某人的代码提交量，包括增加，删除：
git log --author="$(git config --get user.name)" --pretty=tformat: --numstat | gawk '{ add += $1 ; subs += $2 ; loc += $1 - $2 } END { printf "added lines: %s removed lines : %s total lines: %s\n",add,subs,loc }' -  
仓库提交者排名前 5（如果看全部，去掉 head 管道即可）：

git log --pretty='%aN' | sort | uniq -c | sort -k1 -n -r | head -n 5  
仓库提交者（邮箱）排名前 5：这个统计可能不会太准，因为很多人有不同的邮箱，但会使用相同的名字

git log --pretty=format:%ae | gawk -- '{ ++c[$0]; } END { for(cc in c) printf "%5d %s\n",c[cc],cc; }' | sort -u -n -r | head -n 5  
贡献者统计：
git log --pretty='%aN' | sort -u | wc -l  
提交数统计：

git log --oneline | wc -l
添加或修改的代码行数：

git log --stat|perl -ne 'END { print $c } $c += $1 if /(\d+) insertions/;  

git log 参数说明： 
--author   指定作者 
--stat   显示每次更新的文件修改统计信息，会列出具体文件列表 
--shortstat    统计每个commit 的文件修改行数，包括增加，删除，但不列出文件列表：   
--numstat   统计每个commit 的文件修改行数，包括增加，删除，并列出文件列表： 
  
    
-p 选项展开显示每次提交的内容差异，用 -2 则仅显示最近的两次更新 
       例如：git log -p  -2 
--name-only 仅在提交信息后显示已修改的文件清单 
--name-status 显示新增、修改、删除的文件清单 
--abbrev-commit 仅显示 SHA-1 的前几个字符，而非所有的 40 个字符 
--relative-date 使用较短的相对时间显示（比如，“2 weeks ago”） 
--graph 显示 ASCII 图形表示的分支合并历史 
--pretty 使用其他格式显示历史提交信息。可用的选项包括 oneline，short，full，fuller 和 format（后跟指定格式） 
       例如： git log --pretty=oneline ; git log --pretty=short ; git log --pretty=full ; git log --pretty=fuller 
--pretty=tformat:   可以定制要显示的记录格式，这样的输出便于后期编程提取分析 
       例如：git log --pretty=format:""%h - %an, %ar : %s"" 
       下面列出了常用的格式占位符写法及其代表的意义。                    
       选项       说明                   
       %H      提交对象（commit）的完整哈希字串                
       %h      提交对象的简短哈希字串                
       %T      树对象（tree）的完整哈希字串                    
       %t      树对象的简短哈希字串                     
       %P      父对象（parent）的完整哈希字串                
       %p      父对象的简短哈希字串                    
       %an     作者（author）的名字               
       %ae     作者的电子邮件地址                 
       %ad     作者修订日期（可以用 -date= 选项定制格式）                    
       %ar     作者修订日期，按多久以前的方式显示                     
       %cn     提交者(committer)的名字                 
       %ce     提交者的电子邮件地址                     
       %cd     提交日期                 
       %cr     提交日期，按多久以前的方式显示               
       %s      提交说明   
--since  限制显示输出的范围， 
       例如： git log --since=2.weeks    显示最近两周的提交 
       选项 说明                 
       -(n)    仅显示最近的 n 条提交                     
       --since, --after 仅显示指定时间之后的提交。                     
       --until, --before 仅显示指定时间之前的提交。                   
       --author 仅显示指定作者相关的提交。                 
       --committer 仅显示指定提交者相关的提交。 
  
    一些例子： git log --until=1.minute.ago // 一分钟之前的所有 log git log --since=1.day.ago //一天之内的log git log --since=1.hour.ago //一个小时之内的 log git log --since=`.month.ago --until=2.weeks.ago //一个月之前到半个月之前的log git 
log --since ==2013-08.01 --until=2013-09-07 //某个时间段的 log   git blame 
看看某一个文件的相关历史记录 
       例如：git blame index.html --date short


git shortlog -nse   个人贡献列表，包含merge

git shortlog -nse --no-merges  个人贡献列表，不包含merge，纯作者


  2447  Paolo Bonzini <pbonzini@redhat.com>
  2290  Fabrice Bellard <fabrice@bellard.org>
  1978  Peter Maydell <peter.maydell@linaro.org>
  1737  Blue Swirl <blauwirbel@gmail.com>
  1732  Gerd Hoffmann <kraxel@redhat.com>
  1606  Aurelien Jarno <aurelien@aurel32.net>
  1582  Richard Henderson <rth@twiddle.net>
  1344  Markus Armbruster <armbru@redhat.com>
  1202  Andreas Färber <afaerber@suse.de>
  1189  Kevin Wolf <kwolf@redhat.com>
  1181  Anthony Liguori <anthony@codemonkey.ws>
   933  Thiemo Seufer <ths@networkno.de>
   876  Juan Quintela <quintela@redhat.com>
   724  Michael S. Tsirkin <mst@redhat.com>
   716  Jan Kiszka <jan.kiszka@siemens.com>
   656  Paul Brook <paul@codesourcery.com>
   652  Alexander Graf <agraf@suse.de>
   617  Stefan Weil <sw@weilnetz.de>
   571  Fam Zheng <famz@redhat.com>
   552  Eduardo Habkost <ehabkost@redhat.com>
   552  Luiz Capitulino <lcapitulino@redhat.com>
   536  Max Reitz <mreitz@redhat.com>
   516  Stefan Hajnoczi <stefanha@redhat.com>
   458  Avi Kivity <avi@redhat.com>
   455  Andrzej Zaborowski <balrogg@gmail.com>
   452  Igor Mammedov <imammedo@redhat.com>
   435  Eric Blake <eblake@redhat.com>
   391  David Gibson <david@gibson.dropbear.id.au>
   374  Daniel P. Berrange <berrange@redhat.com>
   361  Stefan Weil <weil@mail.berlios.de>
   358  Edgar E. Iglesias <edgar.iglesias@gmail.com>
   344  Peter Crosthwaite <peter.crosthwaite@xilinx.com>
   319  malc <av1474@comtv.ru>
   295  Hans de Goede <hdegoede@redhat.com>
   289  Alexey Kardashevskiy <aik@ozlabs.ru>
   287  John Snow <jsnow@redhat.com>
   283  Stefan Hajnoczi <stefanha@linux.vnet.ibm.com>
   269  Jocelyn Mayer <l_indien@magic.fr>
   266  Gonglei <arei.gonglei@huawei.com>
   250  Isaku Yamahata <yamahata@valinux.co.jp>
   243  Tom Musta <tommusta@gmail.com>
   216  Marc-André Lureau <marcandre.lureau@redhat.com>
   205  Alex Williamson <alex.williamson@redhat.com>
   198  Hervé Poussineau <hpoussin@reactos.org>
   195  Dr. David Alan Gilbert <dgilbert@redhat.com>
   188  Max Filippov <jcmvbkbc@gmail.com>
   186  Amit Shah <amit.shah@redhat.com>
   185  Peter Lieven <pl@kamp.de>
   167  Jeff Cody <jcody@redhat.com>
   167  Mark McLoughlin <markmc@redhat.com>
   165  Laszlo Ersek <lersek@redhat.com>

使用以下代码处理：

import os
 
mydict = {}
 
p = open('qemu-list','r')
content = p.readlines()
for line in content:
    p = line.split()
    try:
        con1 = p[-1][1:-1].split('.')[-2]
        con2 = con1.split('@')
        if len(con2) == 2:
            con3 = con2[1]
        else:
            con3 = con2[0]
        if not mydict.has_key(con3):
            mydict[con3] = int(p[0])
        else:
            mydict[con3] += int(p[0])
    except:
        pass
 
 
for k in sorted(mydict.iteritems(), key=lambda d:d[1], reverse = True):
    print k[0],k[1]

得出公司统计： 

redhat 16199
gmail 4305
linaro 2421
bellard 2290
suse 2046
ibm 1960
aurel32 1606
twiddle 1583
codemonkey 1181
networkno 933
codesourcery 770
siemens 718
weilnetz 618
xilinx 555
co 451
id 414
fujitsu 391
huawei 389
berlios 361
comtv 319
ozlabs 291
imgtec 279
magic 269
citrix 234
reactos 200
web 194
kamp 185
intel 183
msk 139
igalia 137
lst 113
crashing 112
openvz 106
ispras 106
samsung 103
walle 100
uni-paderborn 97
greensocs 95
nokia 94
upc 85
petalogix 83
tribudubois 82
vivier 79
freescale 75
virtuozzo 73
163 69
ravellosystems 57
adacore 55
amd 55
iksaif 54
irqsave 52


# 2. 代码管理_Git中获取两个标签之间的变更代码行数
 - ouhy - 博客园 https://www.cnblogs.com/whylaughing/p/7000021.html


操作步骤：

1、先进入git的服务器，定位到 repositories 目录

2、再定位到具体的项目目录（登录bitbucket查看项目属性可以看到项目的存放目录），如下图:

3、浏览项目的标签，命令：git tag


4、输入便签之间的变更代码行数，命令如下：
git log SC_V5.0.3.49_S04..SC_V5.0.3.49_S05 --pretty=tformat: --numstat | gawk '{ add += $1 ; subs += $2 ; loc += $1 + $2 } END { printf "added lines: %s removed lines : %s total lines: %s\n",add,subs,loc }'
git log --pretty=tformat: --numstat | gawk '{ add += $1 ; subs += $2 ; loc += $1 + $2 } END { printf "added lines: %s removed lines : %s total lines: %s\n",add,subs,loc }'
git log b5.7.1.1-1231..master --pretty=tformat: --numstat | gawk '{ add += $1 ; subs += $2 ; loc += $1 + $2 } END { printf "added lines: %s removed lines : %s total lines: %s\n",add,subs,loc }'
git log b5.2.4.2-0214..b5.7.1.1-1231 --pretty=tformat: --numstat | gawk '{ add += $1 ; subs += $2 ; loc += $1 + $2 } END { printf "added lines: %s removed lines : %s total lines: %s\n",add,subs,loc }'



返回：added lines: 321 removed lines : 125 total lines: 446
git log SC_V5.0.3.49_S04..SC_V5.0.3.49_S05 --author="$(git config --get user.name)" --pretty=tformat: --numstat | gawk '{ add += $1 ; subs += $2 ; loc += $1 + $2 } END { printf "added lines: %s removed lines : %s total lines: %s\n",add,subs,loc }'

统计一段时间内的：
git log --pretty=tformat: --since ==2016-10-25 --until=2016-10-27 --numstat | gawk '{ add += $1 ; subs += $2 ; loc += $1 + $2 } END { printf "added lines: %s removed lines : %s total lines: %s\n",add,subs,loc }'  

# 3. Git查看分支创建时间-蚂蚁部落 
https://www.softwhy.com/article-8556-1.html

实际应用中，可能需要准确知道指定分支的创建时间。

代码实例如下：

git reflog show --date=iso master
git reflog --date=local --all|grep Created
git reflog --date=iso --all|grep Created
git reflog --date=iso8601 --all|grep Created
git reflog --date=short --all|grep Created

> rfc2822：Mon，3 Jul 2006 17:18:43 0200
> iso8601：2006-07-03 17:18:43 0200
> local：Mon Jul 3 15:18:43 2006
> short：2006-07-03(不是在1.9.1，工程在2.3.0)


代码运行效果截图如下：

a:3:{s:3:\"pic\";s:43:\"portal/201807/25/004441b4zlwoliw4q4dqca.jpg\";s:5:\"thumb\";s:0:\"\";s:6:\"remote\";N;}

可以查看到指定分支的历次更改记录，最下面一条的时间即是分支创建时间。

# 4. https://git-scm.com/docs/pretty-formats



PRETTY FORMATS
If the commit is a merge, and if the pretty-format is not oneline, email or raw, an additional line is inserted before the Author: line. This line begins with "Merge: " and the hashes of ancestral commits are printed, separated by spaces. Note that the listed commits may not necessarily be the list of the direct parent commits if you have limited your view of history: for example, if you are only interested in changes related to a certain directory or file.

There are several built-in formats, and you can define additional formats by setting a pretty.<name> config option to either another format name, or a format: string, as described below (see git-config[1]). Here are the details of the built-in formats:

oneline

<hash> <title line>
This is designed to be as compact as possible.

short

commit <hash>
Author: <author>
<title line>
medium

commit <hash>
Author: <author>
Date:   <author date>
<title line>
<full commit message>
full

commit <hash>
Author: <author>
Commit: <committer>
<title line>
<full commit message>
fuller

commit <hash>
Author:     <author>
AuthorDate: <author date>
Commit:     <committer>
CommitDate: <committer date>
<title line>
<full commit message>
reference

<abbrev hash> (<title line>, <short author date>)
This format is used to refer to another commit in a commit message and is the same as --pretty='format:%C(auto)%h (%s, %ad)'. By default, the date is formatted with --date=short unless another --date option is explicitly specified. As with any format: with format placeholders, its output is not affected by other options like --decorate and --walk-reflogs.

email

From <hash> <date>
From: <author>
Date: <author date>
Subject: [PATCH] <title line>
<full commit message>
mboxrd

Like email, but lines in the commit message starting with "From " (preceded by zero or more ">") are quoted with ">" so they aren’t confused as starting a new commit.

raw

The raw format shows the entire commit exactly as stored in the commit object. Notably, the hashes are displayed in full, regardless of whether --abbrev or --no-abbrev are used, and parents information show the true parent commits, without taking grafts or history simplification into account. Note that this format affects the way commits are displayed, but not the way the diff is shown e.g. with git log --raw. To get full object names in a raw diff format, use --no-abbrev.

format:<string>

The format:<string> format allows you to specify which information you want to show. It works a little bit like printf format, with the notable exception that you get a newline with %n instead of \n.

E.g, format:"The author of %h was %an, %ar%nThe title was >>%s<<%n" would show something like this:

The author of fe6e0ee was Junio C Hamano, 23 hours ago
The title was >>t4119: test autocomputing -p<n> for traditional diff input.<<
The placeholders are:

Placeholders that expand to a single literal character:

%n
newline

%%
a raw %

%x00
print a byte from a hex code

Placeholders that affect formatting of later placeholders:

%Cred
switch color to red

%Cgreen
switch color to green

%Cblue
switch color to blue

%Creset
reset color

%C(…​)
color specification, as described under Values in the "CONFIGURATION FILE" section of git-config[1]. By default, colors are shown only when enabled for log output (by color.diff, color.ui, or --color, and respecting the auto settings of the former if we are going to a terminal). %C(auto,...) is accepted as a historical synonym for the default (e.g., %C(auto,red)). Specifying %C(always,...) will show the colors even when color is not otherwise enabled (though consider just using --color=always to enable color for the whole output, including this format and anything else git might color). auto alone (i.e. %C(auto)) will turn on auto coloring on the next placeholders until the color is switched again.

%m
left (<), right (>) or boundary (-) mark

%w([<w>[,<i1>[,<i2>]]])
switch line wrapping, like the -w option of git-shortlog[1].

%<(<N>[,trunc|ltrunc|mtrunc])
make the next placeholder take at least N columns, padding spaces on the right if necessary. Optionally truncate at the beginning (ltrunc), the middle (mtrunc) or the end (trunc) if the output is longer than N columns. Note that truncating only works correctly with N >= 2.

%<|(<N>)
make the next placeholder take at least until Nth columns, padding spaces on the right if necessary

%>(<N>), %>|(<N>)
similar to %<(<N>), %<|(<N>) respectively, but padding spaces on the left

%>>(<N>), %>>|(<N>)
similar to %>(<N>), %>|(<N>) respectively, except that if the next placeholder takes more spaces than given and there are spaces on its left, use those spaces

%><(<N>), %><|(<N>)
similar to %<(<N>), %<|(<N>) respectively, but padding both sides (i.e. the text is centered)

Placeholders that expand to information extracted from the commit:

%H commit hash
%h abbreviated commit hash
%T tree hash
%t abbreviated tree hash
%P parent hashes
%p abbreviated parent hashes
%an author name
%aN author name (respecting .mailmap, see git-shortlog[1] or git-blame[1])
%ae author email
%aE author email (respecting .mailmap, see git-shortlog[1] or git-blame[1])
%al author email local-part (the part before the @ sign)
%aL author local-part (see %al) respecting .mailmap, see git-shortlog[1] or git-blame[1])
%ad author date (format respects --date= option)
%aD author date, RFC2822 style
%ar author date, relative
%at author date, UNIX timestamp
%ai author date, ISO 8601-like format
%aI author date, strict ISO 8601 format
%as author date, short format (YYYY-MM-DD)
%cn committer name
%cN committer name (respecting .mailmap, see git-shortlog[1] or git-blame[1])
%ce committer email
%cE committer email (respecting .mailmap, see git-shortlog[1] or git-blame[1])
%cl committer email local-part (the part before the @ sign)
%cL committer local-part (see %cl) respecting .mailmap, see git-shortlog[1] or git-blame[1])
%cd committer date (format respects --date= option)
%cD committer date, RFC2822 style
%cr committer date, relative
%ct committer date, UNIX timestamp
%ci committer date, ISO 8601-like format
%cI committer date, strict ISO 8601 format
%cs committer date, short format (YYYY-MM-DD)
%d ref names, like the --decorate option of git-log[1]
%D ref names without the " (", ")" wrapping.
%S ref name given on the command line by which the commit was reached (like git log --source), only works with git log
%e encoding
%s subject
%f sanitized subject line, suitable for a filename
%b body
%B raw body (unwrapped subject and body)
%N commit notes
%GG raw verification message from GPG for a signed commit
%G? show "G" for a good (valid) signature, "B" for a bad signature, "U" for a good signature with unknown validity, "X" for a good signature that has expired, "Y" for a good signature made by an expired key, "R" for a good signature made by a revoked key, "E" if the signature cannot be checked (e.g. missing key) and "N" for no signature
%GS show the name of the signer for a signed commit
%GK show the key used to sign a signed commit
%GF show the fingerprint of the key used to sign a signed commit
%GP show the fingerprint of the primary key whose subkey was used to sign a signed commit
%GT show the trust level for the key used to sign a signed commit
%gD reflog selector, e.g., refs/stash@{1} or refs/stash@{2 minutes ago}; the format follows the rules described for the -g option. The portion before the @ is the refname as given on the command line (so git log -g refs/heads/master would yield refs/heads/master@{0}).
%gd shortened reflog selector; same as %gD, but the refname portion is shortened for human readability (so refs/heads/master becomes just master).
%gn reflog identity name
%gN reflog identity name (respecting .mailmap, see git-shortlog[1] or git-blame[1])
%ge reflog identity email
%gE reflog identity email (respecting .mailmap, see git-shortlog[1] or git-blame[1])
%gs reflog subject

%(trailers[:options])
display the trailers of the body as interpreted by git-interpret-trailers[1]. The trailers string may be followed by a colon and zero or more comma-separated options:

key=<K>: only show trailers with specified key. Matching is done case-insensitively and trailing colon is optional. If option is given multiple times trailer lines matching any of the keys are shown. This option automatically enables the only option so that non-trailer lines in the trailer block are hidden. If that is not desired it can be disabled with only=false. E.g., %(trailers:key=Reviewed-by) shows trailer lines with key Reviewed-by.

only[=val]: select whether non-trailer lines from the trailer block should be included. The only keyword may optionally be followed by an equal sign and one of true, on, yes to omit or false, off, no to show the non-trailer lines. If option is given without value it is enabled. If given multiple times the last value is used.

separator=<SEP>: specify a separator inserted between trailer lines. When this option is not given each trailer line is terminated with a line feed character. The string SEP may contain the literal formatting codes described above. To use comma as separator one must use %x2C as it would otherwise be parsed as next option. If separator option is given multiple times only the last one is used. E.g., %(trailers:key=Ticket,separator=%x2C ) shows all trailer lines whose key is "Ticket" separated by a comma and a space.

unfold[=val]: make it behave as if interpret-trailer’s --unfold option was given. In same way as to for only it can be followed by an equal sign and explicit value. E.g., %(trailers:only,unfold=true) unfolds and shows all trailer lines.

valueonly[=val]: skip over the key part of the trailer line and only show the value part. Also this optionally allows explicit value.

Note
Some placeholders may depend on other options given to the revision traversal engine. For example, the %g* reflog options will insert an empty string unless we are traversing reflog entries (e.g., by git log -g). The %d and %D placeholders will use the "short" decoration format if --decorate was not already provided on the command line.
If you add a + (plus sign) after % of a placeholder, a line-feed is inserted immediately before the expansion if and only if the placeholder expands to a non-empty string.

If you add a - (minus sign) after % of a placeholder, all consecutive line-feeds immediately preceding the expansion are deleted if and only if the placeholder expands to an empty string.

If you add a ` ` (space) after % of a placeholder, a space is inserted immediately before the expansion if and only if the placeholder expands to a non-empty string.

tformat:

The tformat: format works exactly like format:, except that it provides "terminator" semantics instead of "separator" semantics. In other words, each commit has the message terminator character (usually a newline) appended, rather than a separator placed between entries. This means that the final entry of a single-line format will be properly terminated with a new line, just as the "oneline" format does. For example:

$ git log -2 --pretty=format:%h 4da45bef \
  | perl -pe '$_ .= " -- NO NEWLINE\n" unless /\n/'
4da45be
7134973 -- NO NEWLINE

$ git log -2 --pretty=tformat:%h 4da45bef \
  | perl -pe '$_ .= " -- NO NEWLINE\n" unless /\n/'
4da45be
7134973
In addition, any unrecognized string that has a % in it is interpreted as if it has tformat: in front of it. For example, these two are equivalent:

$ git log -2 --pretty=tformat:%h 4da45bef
$ git log -2 --pretty=%h 4da45bef

